This repository contains three Python projects developed for an internship assignment. Each project demonstrates different aspects of data analysis, machine learning, and numerical computing using popular Python libraries.
 Table of Contents

Projects Overview
Installation
Project Details

1. Data Analysis and Visualization Tool
2. House Price Prediction Model
3. Matrix Operations Tool


Usage
Requirements
Author


 Projects Overview
1. Data Analysis and Visualization Tool
File: data_analysis_visualization.py
A comprehensive tool for analyzing CSV datasets using Pandas and creating various visualizations using Matplotlib. The tool performs statistical analysis, calculates averages, and generates bar charts, scatter plots, and correlation heatmaps.
2. House Price Prediction Model
File: house_price_prediction.py
A machine learning project that uses Linear Regression to predict house prices based on features like number of rooms, location, square footage, and other relevant factors. Includes data preprocessing, model training, and evaluation metrics.
3. Matrix Operations Tool
File: matrix_operations_tool.py
An interactive command-line application for performing various matrix operations using NumPy. Supports operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, transpose, determinant calculation, and matrix inversion.

💻 Installation
Prerequisites

Python 3.7 or higher
pip (Python package installer)

Setup Instructions

Clone the repository:

bash   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/python-internship-projects.git
   cd python-internship-projects

Install required packages:

bash   pip install -r requirements.txt
Or install packages individually:
bash   pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn

 Project Details
1. Data Analysis and Visualization Tool
Features:

Load and analyze CSV datasets
Calculate statistical measures (mean, median, std dev)
Generate visualizations:

Bar charts for categorical data
Scatter plots with trend lines
Correlation heatmaps


Automatic missing value detection
Outlier identification
Comprehensive insights generation

Usage:
bashpython data_analysis_visualization.py
Key Functions:

load_data() - Load CSV file
basic_statistics() - Display statistical summary
calculate_column_average() - Calculate column averages
create_bar_chart() - Generate bar charts
create_scatter_plot() - Create scatter plots with trend lines
create_heatmap() - Generate correlation heatmaps
generate_insights() - Provide data insights

Sample Output:

bar_chart_[column].png - Bar chart visualization
scatter_plot_[x]_vs_[y].png - Scatter plot visualization
correlation_heatmap.png - Correlation matrix heatmap


2. House Price Prediction Model
Features:

Load house price datasets from CSV
Comprehensive data preprocessing:

Handle missing values
Encode categorical variables
Feature scaling


Train Linear Regression model
Evaluate model performance (R², RMSE, MAE)
Visualize predictions and residuals
Make predictions for new houses

Usage:
bashpython house_price_prediction.py
Key Functions:

load_data() - Load dataset
explore_data() - Exploratory data analysis
preprocess_data() - Data cleaning and preparation
train_model() - Train linear regression model
evaluate_model() - Calculate performance metrics
predict_price() - Make price predictions

Model Metrics:

R² Score - Coefficient of determination
RMSE - Root Mean Squared Error
MAE - Mean Absolute Error

Sample Output:

price_distribution.png - Price distribution visualization
model_predictions.png - Actual vs predicted prices

Dataset Recommendations:
You can use datasets from:

Kaggle: "House Prices - Advanced Regression Techniques"
UCI Machine Learning Repository
Or use the included sample dataset generator


3. Matrix Operations Tool
Features:

Interactive command-line interface
Support for multiple matrix operations:

Addition - Add two matrices
Subtraction - Subtract two matrices
Multiplication - Matrix multiplication
Transpose - Find transpose of a matrix
Determinant - Calculate determinant (square matrices)
Inverse - Find inverse of a matrix
Scalar Multiplication - Multiply matrix by scalar


Matrix storage and management
Sample matrices for demonstration
User-friendly formatted output

Usage:
bashpython matrix_operations_tool.py
Operation Modes:

Interactive Mode - Manual matrix input and operations
Demonstration Mode - Pre-defined examples

Example Workflow:
1. Choose operation from menu
2. Input matrix dimensions
3. Enter matrix elements row by row
4. View formatted results
5. Continue with more operations or exit
Matrix Input Format:
Enter number of rows: 2
Enter number of columns: 3
Row 1: 1 2 3
Row 2: 4 5 6


General Workflow

Choose a project based on your needs
Run the Python script using the command line
Follow the prompts for interactive projects
View outputs - visualizations are saved as PNG files
Modify code as needed for your specific datasets

Using Your Own Data
For Data Analysis Tool:

Replace sample_sales_data.csv with your CSV file path
Update column names in the code to match your dataset

For House Price Prediction:

Download a dataset from Kaggle or use your own
Update the file path in the code
Ensure the dataset has a price column

For Matrix Operations:

Use interactive mode to input your matrices
Or modify the sample matrices in the code

